Document <input type=color> serialization w/ colorspace & alpha (#40260)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/reference/elements/input/color/index.md

</div>

<div>
  <input
    type="color"
    id="body"

>     name="body"

Author: Yeah, good point, I didn't like this "monster" example at all. I just called these foreground and background colors now.

## Value

A [CSS color value](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value).

> [!NOTE]
> Historically, only basic hexadecimal colors (without alpha channel) were allowed. In modern browsers, any CSS color formats, e.g., color names, functional notations and a hexadecimal format with an alpha channel can be used. Non-supporting browsers fall back to `#000000` (black).

## Additional attributes

In addition to the [common attributes](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/input#attributes) shared by all {{HTMLElement("input")}} elements, `color` inputs support the following attributes.

- `alpha`
  - : A [boolean](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Boolean/HTML) attribute indicating whether the color's alpha component can be manipulated by the end user and does not have to be fully opaque.

- `colorspace`
  - : A string indicating the color space of the serialized CSS color. It also hints at the desired user interface for selecting a CSS color. Possible values:

>     - `"limited-srgb"`: The SRGB color space and limited to 8-bits per component, e.g., `#123456` or `color(srgb 0 1 0 / 0.5)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `"limited-srgb"`: The color is in the {{glossary("RGB". "sRGB")}} color space. This includes [`rgb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/rgb),  [`hsl()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hsl), [`hwb()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb), and {{cssxref("hex-color")}} values. The color value is limited to 8-bits per `r`, `g`, and `b` component. This is the default.
```

>     - `"display-p3"`: The Display P3 color space, e.g., `color(display-p3 1.84 -0.19 0.72 / 0.6)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `"display-p3"`: The [Display P3 color space](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#display-p3), e.g., `color(display-p3 1.84 -0.19 0.72 / 0.6)`
```
This is copied from the specification.

## Using color inputs

Inputs of type `color` are simple, due to the limited number of attributes they support.

### Providing a default color

You can update the example above to set a default value, so that the color picker is pre-filled with the default color and the color picker (if any) will also default to that color.

```html
<input type="color" value="#ff0000" />
<input
  type="color"
  id="body"
  name="body"
  value="oklab(50% 0.1 0.1 / 0.5)"
  colorspace="display-p3"
  alpha />
```

{{EmbedLiveSample("Providing_a_default_color", 700, 30)}}

> If you don't specify a value or if the browser doesn't support more complex CSS color value notations, the default color `#000000` is used, which is black.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't specify a value or if the value is invalid or otherwise not supported by the browser, the value defaults to `#000000`, which is opaque black.
```
